# **New-York-Water-Complaints**
This repository is a New York City public policy prioritization study where we analyzed over 50 million complaint lines involving water, quality and market value of real estate within the city.

# Use Case

- Use Case Summary:
- Objective Statement:
  * Gain insight into how the city government acts on water issues with its residents.
  * Identify patterns in water quality and complaints to make transparent the impacts generated by poor sanitation quality.
  * Identify the most valued regions from a market value point of view in the city and thus understand the relationships with public complaints involving sanitation.
  
- Challenges:
  * Extremely large data size, making it a real challenge to process it using Python.
  * Joining of many databases to form a complete detail about the public policy scene within the city.
  * Non-standard spatial transformations in the databases make the analysis difficult, requiring a lot of time to think of a standard conversion format.
 
- Methodology / Analytic Technique:
  * Descriptive analysis
  * Spatial analysis
  * Random Forest
  
 - Expected Outcome:
  * Present a clear pattern of response in the resolution of public complaints related to water, where the city government focuses more on the appreciated regions instead of the distant and less valued ones.
  * Determine what are the key features that determine the creation of a complaint and thus provide insights on how to address the root problem.
  * Identify the areas with the worst water levels in the city, thus making it clear to the city of New York where they must act to correct their problems
  
 # Data Understanding
- Source Data: This project used 5 different data sets
  * [311 Service Requests from 2010 to Present](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Social-Services/311-Service-Requests-from-2010-to-Present/erm2-nwe9): Daily updated public database on public maintenance requests within the city.
    - The dataset has 41 columns with more than **25 million of rows**, with a daily update.
    - Data Dictionary can be found [here](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Social-Services/311-Service-Requests-from-2010-to-Present/erm2-nwe9)
   * [Drinking Water Quality Distribution Monitoring Data](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Environment/Drinking-Water-Quality-Distribution-Monitoring-Dat/bkwf-xfky/data): Hourly measurements of water quality at different locations within the city, in order to detect levels of turbidity, colifrom. fluride and chlorine.
    - The data set contains 10 columns with more than 100 thousando rows, with a daily update.
    - Data Dictionary can be found [here](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Environment/Drinking-Water-Quality-Distribution-Monitoring-Dat/bkwf-xfky)
    
    
  
